# Wage-Gaps-in-the-U.S.
Predicting wage in the U.S. based on race, years of education and experience, and whether and individual lives in a metropolitan area.

#Wealth inequality in the United States has reached alarming levels in recent years. As of 2012, 1% of Americans held 40% of the nation’s wealth while the bottom 80% had only 7% of the country’s wealth.  Income inequality falls along racial lines as well: a typical black household today only has 6% of the wealth of a typical white household.  This disparity has become so extreme that in 2015, President Obama called economic inequality “the defining challenge of our time.”  The dataset “uswages,” which contains information on the distribution of wages for 2,000 American males as of 1988 is thus of particular interest and importance in our current climate. The dataset includes data on weekly wage, years of education, years of experience, race (coded 1 for black and 0 for white), geographic location in the country, full versus part-time work, and whether someone lives in a standard metropolitan statistical area i.e. a city.  

#The overall research question of interest is how wages for full-time male workers in the United States are related to years of education, years of experience, race, and whether or not someone lives in a metropolitan area. In particular it would be interesting to see whether there is a significant difference in wages between blacks and whites when educational attainment is controlled for. Can the wage gap between blacks and whites in the U.S. be attributed to the fact that black Americans are less likely to go to college? Further, I will investigate whether educational attainment or years of experience has a bigger impact on wage. How important is a college education? Based on prior knowledge, I would expect that wages will increase with years of education and years of experience, they would be higher for white men compared to black men and would be higher for those living in cities. I would also hypothesize that a racial wage gap exists regardless of educational attainment and that amount of experience has a larger positive impact on wage than years of education. 
